So let's move over to react and dear when we build for production we of course now also want to use
our real back and you are L.
Now we gasped as you are L now as let's grab it here
and insert it instead of local host five thousand like this.
So this is now where our application should be served at Indiana and removed his trailing slashes here
so once we get this setup we hopefully have a reactive which is able to talk to our back and so let's
run NPM run build again to create this production build and then before we deployed this to a static
HOST I want to test it locally for Dad we need as simple local server which can serve our aesthetic
assets and for this you can search for NPM serve to find a NPM package which you can install globally
on your system to simply serve any static files with it.
So here I will run npm install dash G serve and on Linux and Mac you might need to add a pseudo in front
of this to get the right permissions
and this will now installed is serve package.
Again it's just a simple server which we can use locally to serve our built assets.
So now S.D. into the build folder and simply run serve.
And this will now serve your production ready react application.
So it is a way for us to test this application.
It served on local host five thousand here.
So let's enter that and let's see where this works.
Now it finds no users initially which makes a lot of sense because we haven't created any.
So let's now Indian go to authenticate here and let's try signing up with one.
So here will enter Max and pick an image of course.
Here it is enter email address and a password and click sign up and this seems to work.
Here is our user if you click on the user.
I could not find any places for the user but if I tried to create one Marine plots great place in Munich.
I'm sure you know this place by now.
We can configure all of that click at place.
Now when we go back here I see we got kind of a strange style here I would say if I reload it's gone.
Not sure it's always there when we navigate to this page.
Simply a styling issue though it does work and we see our place here.
We can also view it on a map.
Let's try editing it looks good and let's stride.
Before we deleted action let's go to mongo DP and have a look into our database to see where it's stored
in the right database which should be merged Prot.
So let's go to and port and in merged port in places we have one document with one place and we have
one user and that user has a reference to our place.
If we now go back here and we delete this place this works and if we go back to mongo TB therefore in
the places collection de should be empty now and on users our reference should be gone and it is.
So this works.
Our production ready reactive works it talks to our back and now we should be ready to also deploy this
reactive to a static host.
Now just as for the node code there are many hosts who can choose to deploy a static application.
I go with firebase hosting because there we also can get started for free.
And all we need is a Google account which we already should have by now.
But again if you search for a static hosting you find plenty of alternatives.
Now you can go to Firebase hosting dogs to learn more about it.
And as always you all do want to check out their pricing to understand what costs you money and what
doesn't.
The hosting we will use here will be free.
But again if you're running a bigger application there and so on.
Then this might not be the case.
So how do we host an application with firebase hosting.
For Dad we can click on get started here on the left and we learn that first of all we have to install
the firebase CLIA.
So just as we had to install a Heroku Seelye we need that and you can click on your button to simply
install it on your system to see the steps you need to run to install it on your system.
So simply make sure you do that you install the firebase tools here as it's called on your system and
once you're done with that you can run firebase in it however.
And that was part of the installation actually.
You also need to sign in.
So you need to run firebase log in and log in with your Google account there so once you ran firebase
log in you can run firebase in it in the project you want to host.
So in my case in this front and folder here and there make sure you're in the front and folder Northern
the build folder anymore.
So navigate into the root front and folder and run firebase in it node will ask you which features a
firebase you want to use and here we only need hosting.
So navigate to that hit space and then confirm with enter.
Then it asks you whether you want to create a new project or use an existing one.
You can choose create a new project here and simply enter a project name into the field once ask for
it here.
I will go with an existing one but you can.
As I said create a new one as a next step.
Your ask what your public directory should be.
The default is public.
But in our case the files we want to deploy and that is the end what it's looking for here are in the
build folder.
So enter build instead your then ask whoever you want to configure this as a single page app and you
should choose yes here.
So did all requests on the server are redirected to that index H to mail file as a next step.
It asks you that it already found it index HMO file if it should overwrite that.
And there you should choose and for no end are often in initialize is this and you should be done to
New files are added with the general configuration.
And one important note here in the firebase Jason File is that rewrites entry in the end that says for
any requests sent to your back and server.
So whatever you are L your entering there it will always serve the index each time demo file because
India we have react and to react router which passes to you or L and then renders the right component.
And that's important for single page applications.
The location where you are serving them always needs to return the index each time I'll file that single
page you're having because you're not resolving you are ls on the server side but instead you always
want to return your h to mellow file with your reactive in it.
So how do you react Deb and the react router can do something with the you or else that's why this configuration
is important here.
With this configured if we go back to the docs we see that now is a next step we can run firebase deploy
so let's run this command here firebase deploy and this will now push our files in the build folder
to a host to a server provided by Firebase and once it's done it will also give you the you are elsewhere
you'll find that of course before you run that command make sure that you rent NPM run build with your
latest change applied.
I did this already but in case you didn't run it first before you deploy and thereafter you find your
hosting you are ill so let's copy that and open it in a new tab and this is now our application and
you can already tell that it works because it fetch the user I created before we can also try logging
in here yeah that looks good.
Still got that strange styling bug here but besides that everything is working just fine.
And with that we got our application up and running on two separate services.
He wrote go for no yes and firebase hosting for react and I would say that this is the most common way
of deploying such Marine apps you want to split your rest api from the front end because that rest api
you build which has served through here Roko really can be utilized by any client you're not restricted
to your react front end if you served as on a standalone server you can easily connect our clients to
it as well.
Now of course that technically would all be possible if reactive served by the same server but the more
you serve from the same server the more requests hit that server.
So splitting the apps on two servers also makes sense from a performance perspective users who are just
visiting your react app who are not doing something that hits your database and your rest api will therefore
only hit the static host and therefore you split the amount of requests and which servers their requests
reach.
So that would be a novel argument for using multiple hosts nonetheless in the next steps I also want
to show you how you can deploy everything to one server.